
                                    RESEARCH DETAILS: TIGER

The tiger (Panthera tigris) is the largest living member of the cat family, the Felidae. It feeds by hunting. 
It lives in Asia, mainly India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Myanmar, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia, 
Indonesia, China, Korea and Siberian Russia.[4] Tigers are solitary animals.

There are tigers with distinct colors. Most tigers have orange fur with black stripes, and a white belly. 
The black stripes usually extend to the white underside. The stripes are used to keep them camouflaged while 
hunting. No two tigers have the same pattern of stripes.[5] Most Bengal tigers have orange fur, but some 
Bengal tigers have white fur with black stripes, or that even have pure white fur. These white tigers are not 
albinos with red eyes. The white coat only appears once in every 100 births. The Bengal tiger is the national 
animal of Bangladesh and India.

Tigers vary in size depending on their subspecies. Siberian tigers are the largest. Males can grow to at least 
9 ft (2.7 m) long (body length) and weigh about 900 lb (410 kg). Females are a bit smaller. Record weight for 
males is claimed as 890 lb (400 kg), but this cannot be confirmed.

Tigers can live in a variety of habitats. Mostly they need to hide, to be near a water source, and have enough 
prey to eat. Tigers are solitary and they all control large amounts of territory, the size of which depends on 
the availability of various food for tigers and prey.[6] According to Tigers-World, a male tiger may live and 
hunt in an area of 60 to 100 square kilometers (23 to 39 square miles). A female tiger may have 20 square 
kilometers (8 square miles).[7] According to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, a single tiger can 
live in a territory as small as 21 square kilometers (8 square miles) to as large as 995 square kilometers 
(385 square miles).[8] Bengal tigers in particular live in many types of forests. These include the wet, evergreen 
of Assam and eastern Bengal; the swampy mangrove forest of the Ganges Delta; the deciduous forest of Nepal, and 
the thorn forests of the Western Ghats.

As previously thought, the tiger had five living subspecies. In this context, 'recently' means in the last two 
centuries. Three tiger subspecies are extinct.

Subspecies of Tiger (Panthera tigris) are:
   Bali tiger (Panthera tigris balica) (are going to extinct)
   Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris tigris)
   Caspian tiger (Panthera tigris virgata) (are going to extinct)
   Indochinese tiger (Panthera tigris corbetti)
   Javan tiger (Panthera tigris sondaica) (are going to extinct)
   Malayan tiger (Panthera tigris jacksoni)
   Siberian tiger (Panthera tigris altaica)
   South China tiger (Panthera tigris amoyensis)
   Sumatran tiger (Panthera tigris sumatrae)

However, in 2017, the Cat Classification Task Force of the IUCN Cat Specialist Group revised felid taxonomy and 
recognized the tiger populations in continental Asia
